Documentation for new teams (#2171)
oddbird/Metecho: docs/metecho-how-to.md

> # Steps to Guide a Team Through Metecho

Author: Could we add an intro paragraph on what Metecho does and why its useful? That might encourage people to learn and use it. Something highlighting that usually contributing to SF projects requires editing code on GitHub but Metecho makes it much easier and interactive.

Reviewer: That's an excellent idea

## Step 0 - Log in with GitHub

> - Create a GitHub account, if you don’t yet have one.

Author: ```suggestion
- Create a [GitHub](https://github.com) account, if you don’t yet have one.
```

> - Contact an admin for the repository (e.g. Nonprofit Success Pack) on GitHub and ensure that you and anyone you’d like to work with are collaborators. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Contact an admin for the GitHub repository you want to contribute to (e.g. Nonprofit Success Pack) on GitHub and ensure that you and anyone you’d like to work with are collaborators. 
```

If you want to create a project, skip down to [Create a Project](#create-a-project).

## Step 1 - Select a Project
**Project** - *(e.g. Nonprofit Success Pack) Projects contain all the work being done. They are equivalent to GitHub repositories.*

- Select the Project you want to contribute to. 
- If you do not see the Project you want to work on: 
  - Confirm that you are logged into the correct Metecho account.
  - Contact an admin for the repository on GitHub and ensure that you are a collaborator. 

>   - Select Re-sync Projects in Metecho.

Author: I think adding screenshots would be helpful in cases where we mention the UI directly. A running instance is available at https://metecho-dev.herokuapp.com/

To continue, go to **Step 2 - Create a Task/s** or, if you have a set of several closely related Tasks in mind, skip to [Step 13 - Create an Epic/s](#step-13---create-an-epics)

## Step 2 - Create a Task/s
**Task** - *Tasks represent small changes to the Project, and may stand alone or be part of an Epic. Creating a Task creates a branch in GitHub.*

- Select the Tasks tab. 
- Create a new Task of your own (or from an existing GitHub Issue).
  - Name the Task. 
- The name can be a brief description of the work.
- Use the optional description section for more detail, if needed.
- Use the recommended dev org type unless you know of a specific reason to use a different one.
- Select Create to save and navigate to your Task detail view. Select Create & New to continue creating multiple Tasks that are unrelated to each other. 
- If you need to edit the Task name or description, or delete the Task, select the gear icon in the top right corner. Deleting a Task deletes all the Orgs as well.

## Step 3 - Invite Task Developer/s  
**Developer** - *The person invited to do the work of a Task.* 

- Assign yourself or invite another person to be the Developer for each Task you created. 

> - Invited Developers will see an alert in Metecho and receive an email invitation. They need to accept the invitation if they want to begin development on the Task.

Author: This might not be entirely correct since we don't have the invitation system in place yet

## Step 7 - Submit Task Changes for Testing
**Submit Changes** - *Document all the changes a Developer made in a Salesforce Dev Org so that a Tester can test the work and leave a review. This action creates a pull request in GitHub.*

**Pull Request** - *A way to propose changes on GitHub so that the maintainers of a Project can review them and accept the changes or request revisions.* 

- When the Developer is finished working and retrieving changes, they need to select Submit Task for Testing (button located just above the Developer card in the Task detail view).
- Each commit message briefly described what changed. Now, when submitting the Task for testing, describe all the critical changes and why they were made so the Tester will understand how to test them.
- Select Submit Task for Testing.

## Step 8 - Invite a Tester
**Tester** - *The person who will look at the Developer’s work, and then approve the work or request changes that must be addressed before the Task can be completed.*

- Assign yourself or invite another person to be the Tester for each Task you created. 

> - Testers can be invited at any time and, just like Developers, they need to accept the invitation in order to begin testing.

Author: Same note about the invitation system

- **This step takes place in the new Salesforce Test Org, not in Metecho.** 
- Select View Org on the Test Org card to navigate out of Metecho and test the Developer’s changes in the temporary Salesforce Test Org.

## Step 11 - Submit a Review
- When the Tester is finished testing the Developer’s changes in the Test Org, select Submit Review on the Test Org card.
- Select Approve if no more work is needed.
- Select Request Changes if the Developer needs to make revisions.
- Leave a description, especially if there are still changes the Developer needs to make, so that the Developer understands what to do next.
- Leaving Delete Test Org checked makes sense in most cases.
  - If the changes are Approved, there is no longer any need for the Test Org.
  - If the Developer needs to make changes, the Tester will need to create a new Test Org to see the newly retrieved changes.
- Select Submit Review.
  - If any change needs to be made to the review, select Update Review in the Test Org card.

## Step 12 - Merge Pull Request on GitHub
**Merge** - *To add proposed changes to the Project on GitHub.* 

- **This step takes place on GitHub, not in Metecho.** 

> - When the Task has been added to the Project on Github, the Task status will update to Complete.

Author: ```suggestion
- A contributor with write access to the GitHub repository will need to review and merge the pull request. When the pull request has been merged on Github, the Task status will update to Complete on Metecho.
```

- If you need to remove a collaborator, select the X icon in the Collaborator card or uncheck the box in the list of Collaborators.

To continue, go up to [Step 2 - Create a Task/s](#step-2---create-a-tasks)

***
## Create a Project
- In the Project list view, select Create Project.
- If you do not see the GitHub Organization you want to work in: 
  - Confirm that you are logged into the correct Metecho account.
  - Contact an admin for the repository on GitHub and ensure that you are a collaborator. 
  - Select Re-sync GitHub Organizations.
- Select a GitHub Organization.
- Create a Project name.
- Select people to add as Collaborators on the Project.
- If you do not see the people you want to invite, contact an admin for the repository on GitHub and ensure that the people are collaborators. Then re-sync GitHub collaborators in Metecho.
- Review your Project selections. Go Back to make edits, Cancel, or Create Project.

To continue, go up to [Step 2 - Create a Task/s](#step-2---create-a-tasks) or [Step 13 - Create an Epic/s](#step-13---create-an-epics)

***
## Additional Help
**Select the ? menu** in the top right corner of Metecho at any time to: 
- View specific walkthroughs.

> - Activate self-guided tour mode for more detail about everything Metecho can do for you.

Author: Glad we are surfacing walkthroughs here 🎉

## Step 4 - Create Dev Org
**Dev Org** - *A temporary Salesforce org where a Developer can work on
contributions to a Project. Dev Orgs expire after 30 days, and all unretrieved
work is deleted.*

- Review the Next Steps for This Task list to see progress and who is
  responsible for the next step.
- To begin work, the Developer will need to select Create Org in the Dev Org
  card.
- Dev Org creation can take a number of minutes. Feel free to leave the page.
  Metecho will provide an alert when the Dev Org is ready.

## Step 5 - Make Changes in Dev Org
- **This step takes place in the new Salesforce Dev Org, not in Metecho.**
- Select View Org on the Dev Org card to navigate out of Metecho and make your
  changes in the temporary Salesforce Dev Org.

## Step 6 - Retrieve Changes from Dev Org
**Retrieve Changes** - *Pull the work you did in your Salesforce Dev Org into
Metecho so that other people can review it. Developers may retrieve changes as
many times as they like while they are working.*

- When the Developer is ready to pull the Salesforce Dev Org work into Metecho,
  they need to select Check for Unretrieved Changes (button located just above

>   the Developer card in the Task detail view).

Reviewer: Thanks for the clarification!

# Steps to Guide a Team Through Metecho

## Step 0 - Log In with GitHub
- Create a [GitHub](https://github.com) account, if you don’t yet have one.
- Contact an admin for the GitHub repository you want to contribute to (e.g.
  Nonprofit Success Pack) on GitHub and ensure that you and anyone you’d like to
  work with are collaborators.

If you want to create a project, skip down to [Create a
Project](#create-a-project).

## Step 1 - Select a Project
**Project** - *(e.g. Nonprofit Success Pack) Projects contain all the work being
done. They are equivalent to GitHub repositories.*

- Select the Project you want to contribute to.
- If you do not see the Project you want to work on:
  - Confirm that you are logged into the correct Metecho account.
  - Contact an admin for the repository on GitHub and ensure that you are a
    collaborator.
  - Select Re-sync Projects in Metecho.

To continue, go to **Step 2 - Create a Task** or, if you have a set of several
closely related Tasks in mind, skip to [Step 13 - Create an
Epic](#step-13---create-an-epic)

## Step 2 - Create a Task

> **Task** - *Tasks represent small changes to the Project, and may stand alone or

Reviewer 2: I think these definitions are great! 🎉

be part of an Epic. Creating a Task creates a branch in GitHub.*

- Select the Tasks tab.
- Create a new Task of your own (or from an existing GitHub Issue).
  - Name the Task.
  - The name can be a brief description of the work.
  - Use the optional description section for more detail, if needed.
  - Use the recommended dev org type unless you know of a specific reason to use
    a different one.
  - Select Create to save and navigate to your Task detail view. Select Create &
    New to continue creating multiple Tasks that are unrelated to each other.

> - If you need to edit the Task name or description, or delete the Task, select

Reviewer 2: A screenshot would be helpful here too I think!

  the gear icon in the top right corner. Deleting a Task deletes all the Orgs as
  well.

> ## Step 3 - Assign Task Developer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3 - Assign a Task Developer
```

**Developer** - *The person assigned to do the work of a Task.*

- Assign yourself or another person to be the Developer for each Task you
  created.
- If you do not see the person you want to assign, contact an admin for the
  repository on GitHub and ensure that the person is a collaborator. Then
  re-sync GitHub collaborators in Metecho.
- If you need to change or remove the Task Developer, use the drop down menu on
  the Developer card in the Task detail view.

> ## Step 4 - Create Dev Org

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 4 - Create a Dev Org
```

**Dev Org** - *A temporary Salesforce org where a Developer can work on
contributions to a Project. Dev Orgs expire after 30 days, and all unretrieved
work is deleted.*

> - Review the Next Steps for This Task list to see progress and who is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On the Task detail page, you can review the "Next Steps for This Task" list to see progress and who is
```

  responsible for the next step.
- To begin work, the Developer will need to select Create Org in the Dev Org
  card.
- Dev Org creation can take a number of minutes. Feel free to leave the page.
  Metecho will provide an alert when the Dev Org is ready.

## Step 5 - Make Changes in Dev Org

> - **This step takes place in the new Salesforce Dev Org, not in Metecho.**

Reviewer 2: Does this mean this will be in the Salesforce UI?

> - **This step takes place in the new Salesforce Dev Org, not in Metecho.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Changes to a Dev Org but be made in the Salesforce UI, not in Metecho.**
```

Reviewer 2: Is a `Dev Org` the same as a `Salesforce Dev Org`? Or does `Salesforce Dev Org` refer to a Dev Org in Salesforce?

Reviewer 3: A "Dev Org" is the same thing as a "Salesforce Dev Org" (all Orgs in this context are Salesforce Orgs). Orgs exist in Salesforce, but we represent them in Metecho and provide a link for users to view them in the Salesforce UI (and we handle auto-login for users).

Orgs can only be modified via the Salesforce UI, not directly from Metecho. So users need to click the "View Org" link in Metecho, which will take them to the Salesforce page for that Org, where they can then make changes (e.g. adding a new field to the Org).

Reviewer 3: > And so if the Dev Org entity is the same but users could be work on it in two places, I think it could be helpful to refer to it with the same name throughout the guide but with a location qualifier when needed like `Dev Org in Salesforce` and `Dev Org in Metecho`. What do you think @SondraE @jgerigmeyer? I think that is what I was trying to capture with the suggestion above as well.

@sanajaved7 I think that makes sense. Changes are made in the Salesforce UI, but orgs are created/deleted and changes are captured via the Metecho UI.

- Select View Org on the Dev Org card to navigate out of Metecho and make your

>   changes in the temporary Salesforce Dev Org.

Reviewer 2: Could we add some information about what changes can be made to a dev org?

Reviewer 3: That's a great idea, but I'm pretty sure any text for that would need to come from someone at SFDO -- I personally at least don't have a great sense for realistic changes that users might be making. :) The only examples I've seen are adding/editing "fields and relationships" in the Orgs.

## Step 6 - Retrieve Changes from Dev Org
**Retrieve Changes** - *Pull the work you did in your Salesforce Dev Org into
Metecho so that other people can review it. Developers may retrieve changes as
many times as they like while they are working.*

- When the Developer is ready to pull the Salesforce Dev Org work into Metecho,

>   they need to select Check for Unretrieved Changes (button located just above

Reviewer 2: A screenshot might be helpful here as well

  the Developer card in the Task detail view).
- Select the location to retrieve changes.
  - Use the preselected Package Directory unless you know of a specific reason
    to select a different option.
- Select the changes to retrieve (or ignore changes you do not intend to
  retrieve).
- Create a commit message that briefly describes the changes.
- Select Retrieve Selected Changes.
- Retrieving changes can take a number of minutes. Feel free to leave the page.
  Metecho will provide an alert when the changes have been retrieved.
- Note that the Developer, commit message, and date now appear in a Commit

>   History list in the Task detail view.

Reviewer 2: A screenshot here for what successfully retrieving changes could help as well

## Step 7 - Submit Task Changes for Testing
**Submit Changes** - *Document all the changes a Developer made in a Salesforce

> Dev Org so that a Tester can test the work and leave a review. This action

Reviewer 2: Related to my question above, are using `Salesforce Dev Org` because these were changes made in the Salesforce UI and not Metecho?

of a Project can review them and accept the changes or request revisions.*

- When the Developer is finished working and retrieving changes, they need to
  select Submit Task for Testing (button located just above the Developer card
  in the Task detail view).
- Each commit message briefly described what changed. Now, when submitting the
  Task for testing, describe all the critical changes and why they were made so
  the Tester will understand how to test them.
- Select Submit Task for Testing.

## Step 8 - Assign a Tester
**Tester** - *The person who will look at the Developer’s work, and then approve
the work or request changes that must be addressed before the Task can be
completed.*

- Assign yourself or another person to be the Tester for each Task you created.
- Testers can be assigned at any time.
- If you do not see the person you want to assign, contact an admin for the
  repository on GitHub and ensure that the person is a collaborator. Then
  re-sync GitHub collaborators in Metecho.
- If you need to change or remove the Task Tester, use the drop down menu on the
  Tester card in the Task detail view.

> ## Step 9 - Create Test Org

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 9 - Create a Test Org
```

**Test Org** - *A temporary Salesforce org where the Tester can look over the
Developer’s work on a specific Task. Test Orgs expire after 30 days.*

- Remember, you can review the Next Steps for This Task list to see progress and
  who is responsible for the next step.
- To begin testing, a Task Tester will need to select Create Org in the Test Org
  card.
- Test Org creation can take a number of minutes. Feel free to leave the page.
  Metecho will provide an alert when the Test Org is ready.

> ## Step 10 - Test Changes in Test Org

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 10 - Test Changes in a Test Org
```

- **This step takes place in the new Salesforce Test Org, not in Metecho.**
- Select View Org on the Test Org card to navigate out of Metecho and test the
  Developer’s changes in the temporary Salesforce Test Org.

## Step 11 - Submit a Review

> - When the Tester is finished testing the Developer’s changes in the Test Org,

Reviewer 2: Users will need to navigate back to Metecho to submit the review, right? If so, it might help to mention that since they had to navigate to Salesforce to test the changes in the Test Org

  select Submit Review on the Test Org card.
- Select Approve if no more work is needed.
- Select Request Changes if the Developer needs to make revisions.
- Leave a description, especially if there are still changes the Developer needs
  to make, so that the Developer understands what to do next.
- Leaving Delete Test Org checked makes sense in most cases.
  - If the changes are Approved, there is no longer any need for the Test Org.
  - If the Developer needs to make changes, the Tester will need to create a new
    Test Org to see the newly retrieved changes.
- Select Submit Review.
  - If any change needs to be made to the review, select Update Review in the
    Test Org card.

> ## Step 12 - Merge Pull Request on GitHub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 12 - Merge a Pull Request on GitHub
```

**Merge** - *To add proposed changes to the Project on GitHub.*

- **This step takes place on GitHub, not in Metecho.**
- A contributor with write access to the GitHub repository will need to review
  and merge the pull request. When the pull request has been merged on GitHub,
  the Task status will update to Complete on Metecho.

***

## Step 13 - Create an Epic
**Epic** - *Major contributions to a Project that include more than one related
Task. Epics are more than containers for multiple Tasks. Like Tasks, creating an
Epic creates a branch in GitHub. Tasks that are part of an Epic create branches
from the Epic branch in GitHub.*

> - Select the Epics tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On a Project's detail page, select the Epics tab.
```
